---
title: Ch2 Basic Structures
sync: /course/dm/note/2.md
---
## 1. Sets

### 1.1. Introduction

**集合(set)**：A set is an unordered collection of objects.
- The objects in a set are call the **元素(elements)**，or members, of the set.
- A set is said to **包含(contain)** its elements.
	- $a \in A$：$a$ is the member of the set $A$.
	- $a \not\in A$：$a$ is not the member of the set $A$.
- **空集(empty set)**：$\varnothing$.

集合的表示方式：The descriptions of a set
- Roster method: listing all its members between braces, e.g. $S=\{1,3,5,7,9\}$.
- Brace notation with ellipses: e.g. $S=\{1,2,\ldots,99\}$.
- Specification using set builder: $S=\{x\mid P(x)\}$, which means $S$ contains all the elements from $U$ (Universal Set) which have the property $P$.
- Venn diagrams 

> [!info]- 罗素悖论 Russell Paradox
> Suppose there is a town with just one male barber; and that every man in the town keeps himself clean-shaven: some by shaving themselves, some by attending the barber. The barber obeys the following rule: he shaves all and only those men in town who do not shave themselves.  Does the barber shave himself?


### 1.2. The relations between two sets 

#### 1.2.1. Subset

$A\subseteq B$:  $A$ is a **子集(subset)** of the set $B$. 
$$
A \subseteq B \Leftrightarrow \forall x (x \in A \rightarrow x \in B)
$$

#### 1.2.2. Equal

$A=B$:  $A$ is **等于(equal)** to $B$. 
$$
A=B \Leftrightarrow A \subseteq B \land B \subseteq A
$$

#### 1.2.3. Proper Subset

$A\subset B$: A is a **真子集(proper subset)** of the set $B$.
$$
A \subset B \Leftrightarrow A \subseteq B \land A \neq B \Leftrightarrow \forall x (x \in A \rightarrow x \in B) \land \exists (x \in B \land  x\not\in A)
$$

#### 1.2.4. The Size of Sets

TBD

#### 1.2.5. Power Sets

Given a set S, the **power set** of S is the set of all subsets of the set S. $\mathcal{P}(x)$ denotes the power set of $S$.

> [!example]- 证明 $\mathcal{P}(A) \in \mathcal{P}(B) \Rightarrow A\in B$.
> 

#### 1.2.6. Cartesian Products

TBD

- If $|A|=m,\ |B|=n$, then $|A\times B|=|B\times A|=mn$.
- $A\times B\neq B\times A$
- $A\times \varnothing = \varnothing \times A= \varnothing$

#### 1.2.7. Truth Sets of Quantifiers

Given a predicate $P$ and a domain $D$. The **truth set** of $P$ is $P$ is the set of elements $x$ in $D$ for which $P(x)$ is true. Namely, the power set of $P$ is $\{x \in D\mid P(x)\}$

### 1.3. Set Operations

#### 1.3.1. Union

$A\cup B = \{x \mid x \in A \lor x \in B\}$

#### 1.3.2. Intersection

$A\cap B = \{x \mid x \in A \land x\in B\}$

#### 1.3.3. Difference

$A-B = \{x \mid x\in A \land x \not\in B\}$: The difference of $A$ and $B$.

#### 1.3.4. Complement 

$\overline{A} = \{x \mid x \not\in A \land x\in U\}$: $\overline{A}$ is the **补集(complement)** of the set $A$. 

#### 1.3.5. Symmetric difference

TBD

> [!important] Ways to prove set identities
> - Show that $A\subseteq B$ and that $B\subseteq A$.
> - Use logical equivalences to prove equivalent set definitions.
> - Use a membership table.
> - Use previously proven identities.


## 2. Functions

### 2.1. Introduction

TBD

- $A$ is called the **定义域(domain)** of $f$
- $B$ is called the **值域(codomain)** of $f$

