---
title: Ch3 Algorithm
sync: /course/dm/note/3.md
---



## 1. 算法 Algorithms

### 1.1. 导论 Introduction

An **算法(algorithm)** is a finite set of precise instructions for performing a computation or for solving a problem.

### 1.2. 算法的性质 Properties of Algorithms

算法一般都有一些共同性质，在描述与评价算法时这种性质是常用的。

- **输入(input)**：An algorithm has input values from a specified set.
- **输出(output)**：From each set of input values, an algorithm produces output values from a specified set.
- **确定性(definiteness)**：The steps of an algorithm must be defined precisely.
- **正确性(correctness)**：An algorithm should produce the correct output values for each set of input values.
- **有限性(finiteness)**：An algorithm should produce the desired output after a finite number of steps for any input in the set.
- **有效性(effectiveness)**：Each step of an algorithm must be executed exactly and in a finite amount of time.
- **通用性(generality)**：The procedure should be applicable for all problems of the desired form, not just for a particular set of input values.

> [!warning]- 注意区分 correctness 和 effectiveness
>
> correctness 主要将算法应该给出 correct output values，而 effectiveness 则主要指出算法应当是可以被 exactly execute。作业题中有一题是一算法会出现 $1/0$ 的情况，应该判定为缺少 effectiveness.

## 2. 函数的增长 The Growth of Functions

### 2.1. 渐进运行时间 Asymptotic Running Time

the number of operations used by the algorithm as the input size approaches infinity

### 2.2. 记号 Notations

**Big-O Notation**：Let $f$ and $g$ be functions from $Z$ (or $R$) to $R$. We say that “$f(x)$ is $O(g(x))$” if there are constants $C$ and $k$ such that $|f(x)| \le C|g(x)|$ whenever $x>k$.

**Big-Omega Notation**：Let $f$ and $g$ be functions from $Z$ (or $R$) to $R$. We say that “$f(x)$ is $\Omega(g(x))$” if there are constants $C$ and $k$ such that $|f(x)|\ge C|g(x)|$ whenever $x>k$.

**Big-Theta Notation**：Let $f$ and $g$ be functions from $Z$ (or $R$) to $R$. We say that “$f(x)$ is $\Theta(g(x))$” if “$f(x)$ is $O(g(x))$” and “$f(x)$ is $\Omega(g(x))$”, i.e., there are constants $C_1$, $C_2$, and $k$ such that $0\le C_1 g(x) \le f(x) \le C_2 g(x)$ whenever $x>k$.

## 3. 算法的复杂度 Complexity of Algorithms

> [!note] Commonly used Terminology for the Complexity of Algorithms
>
> |  Complexity  |                 Terminology                  |
> | :----------: | :------------------------------------------: |
> |    $O(1)$    |     **常数复杂度(constant complexity)**      |
> |  $O(log n)$  |    **对数复杂度(logarithmic complexity)**    |
> |    $O(n)$    |      **线性复杂度(linear complexity)**       |
> | $O(n log n)$ |                                              |
> |   $O(n^b)$   |   **多项式复杂度(polynomial complexity)**    |
> |   $O(b^n)$   | **指数复杂度(exponential complexity)** (b>1) |
> |   $O(n!)$    |     **阶乘复杂度(factorial complexity)**     |

### 3.1. Different types of Analysis

TBD
